[DOC] Add new documentation for data sources (#5127)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/management/data-sources.md

---
layout: default
title: Data sources
nav_order: 110
has_children: true
---

# Data sources

Data sources in OpenSearch are the system and applications that OpenSearch can connect to and ingest data from. Once your data sources have been connected and your data has been ingested, it can be indexed, searched, and analyzed using [REST APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index/) or the OpenSearch Dashboards user interface. 

> The focus of this documentation is on using the OpenSeach Dashboards interface to connect and manage your data sources. For information about using an API to connect data sources, see <insert links to API references>.

Author: Revised and directed reader to next steps section. still don't know what API info the user needs to be directed to. SMEs to revisit after this version of documentation is released.

## Prerequisites

The first step in connecting your data sources and OpenSearch is to install OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards on your system. You can follow the installation instructions in the [OpenSearch documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/index/) to install these tools.

Once you have installed OpenSearch and OpenSearch Dashboards, you can use Dashboards to connect your data sources and OpenSearch and then use Dashboards to manage data sources, create index patterns based on those data sources, run queries against a specific data source, and combine visualizations in one dashboard.

> Configuration of the [YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuration/#configuration-file) and installation of certain [OpenSearch plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) is necessary. The data sources feature flag `data_source.enabled:` must be set to `true`. The default is `false`. The following plugins also are required for integrating your data sources and OpenSearch: `opensearch-sql`, `opensearch-security`, and `opensearch-observability`. 

Author: SME provide information: What are prerequisites? Do you need to have OpenSearch Service to use this feature? What YAML configuration is necessary? What settings need to be configured? Provide configuration examples.

Reviewer: @vamsi-amazon and @derek-ho can provide more info here.

Author: Revised

> Configuration of the [YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuration/#configuration-file) and installation of certain [OpenSearch plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/) is necessary. The data sources feature flag `data_source.enabled:` must be set to `true`. The default is `false`. The following plugins also are required for integrating your data sources and OpenSearch: `opensearch-sql`, `opensearch-security`, and `opensearch-observability`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuration of the [YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuration/#configuration-file) and installation of the `dashboards-observability` and `opensearch-sql` plugins is necessary. For more information, see [OpenSearch plugins]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/).
```

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/data-source-UI.png" alt="Connecting a data source UI" width="700"/>

2. Add information to each field to configure **Connection Details** and **Authentication Method**. 
   
   - Under **Connection Details**, enter a title and endpoint URL. For this tutorial, use the URL `http://localhost:5601/app/management/opensearch-dashboards/dataSources`. Entering a description is optional.

   - Under **Authentication Method**, select an authentication method from the dropdown list. Once an authentication method is selected, the applicable fields for that method appear. You can then enter the required details. The authentication method options are:
       - **No authentication**: No authentication is used to connect to the data source.
       - **Username & Password**: A basic username and password are used to connect to the data source.
       - **AWS SigV4**: An AWS Signature Version 4 authenticating request is used to connect to the data source. AWS Signature Version 4 requires an access key and a secret key. 

>          - For AWS Signature Version 4 authentication, first specify the **Region**. Next, select the OpenSearch service in the **Service Name** list. The options are **Amazon OpenSearch Service** and **Amazon OpenSearch Serverless**. Last, enter the **Access Key** and **Secret Key** for authorization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
         - For AWS Signature Version 4 authentication, first specify the **Region**. Next, select the OpenSearch service in the **Service Name** list. The options are **Amazon OpenSearch Service** and **Amazon OpenSearch Serverless**. Lastly, enter the **Access Key** and **Secret Key** for authorization.
```

    After you have populated the required fields, the **Test connection** and **Create data source** buttons become active. You can select **Test connection** to confirm that the connection is valid.

> 3. Select **Create data source** to save your settings. The connection is created. The active window returns to the **Data Sources** main page, and the new connection appears in the list of data sources.

Reviewer 3: Confirm the capitalization of the **Data Sources** main page (I feel like I may have seen it in sentence case earlier).

Author: Sentence case is correct. Confirmed in UI. Revised.

> 4. To delete a data source connection, select the check box to the left of the data source **Title** and then select the **Delete 1 connection** button. Selecting multiple check boxes for multiple connections is supported. An example of the user interface is shown in the following image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. To delete a data source connection, select the checkbox to the left of the data source **Title** and then select the **Delete 1 connection** button. Selecting multiple checkboxes for multiple connections is supported. An example of the UI is shown in the following image.
```

> 4. To delete a data source connection, select the check box to the left of the data source **Title** and then select the **Delete 1 connection** button. Selecting multiple check boxes for multiple connections is supported. An example of the user interface is shown in the following image.

Reviewer 3: And we use another slightly different phrase to introduce the image here. Let's make consistent globally.

    <img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/delete-data-source.png" alt="Deleting a data source UI" width="700"/>

### Modify a data source connection

> To make changes to the data source connection, select a connection in the list on the **Data Sources** main page. The **Connection Details** window opens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make changes to a data source connection, select a connection in the list on the **Data Sources** main page. The **Connection Details** window opens.
```

> To make changes to the data source connection, select a connection in the list on the **Data Sources** main page. The **Connection Details** window opens.

Reviewer 3: Confirm the capitalization of the UI elements here and in the following paragraph.

Author: Confirmed. The UI uses both Title Case and Sentence case in the UI. Per UX, the Engineering team handles making the UI changes once they've added the UI to their dev environment. We need to resolve this issue because this isn't a new feature. UI copy edits were provided to Engineering and I think those changes weren't made.

Reviewer 3: @kgcreative For your attention.

Reviewer 4: @vagimeli -- can you open an issue in the appropriate repo for text changes? We should be able to update that for 2.12 -- Alternatively, If you send me annotated screenshots I should be able to do that.

To make changes to **Connection Details**, edit one or both of the **Title** and **Description** fields and select **Save changes** in the lower-right corner of the screen. You can also cancel changes here. To change the **Authentication Method**, choose a different authentication method, enter your credentials (if applicable), and then select **Save changes** in the lower-right corner of the screen. The changes are saved.

> - When **Username & Password** is the selected authentication method, you can update the password by choosing **Update stored password** next to the **Password** field. In the pop-up window, enter a new password in the first field and then enter it again in the second field to confirm. Select **Update stored password** in the pop-up window. The new password is saved. Select **Test connection** to confirm that the connection is valid.

Reviewer 3: The list should be introduced by a brief sentence ending in a colon (or these could just be paragraphs instead of bullets).

To delete the data source connection, select the delete icon ({::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/trash-can-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="delete icon"/>{:/}).

## Create an index pattern

Once you've created a data source connection, you can create an index pattern for the data source. An _index pattern_ is a template that OpenSearch uses to create indexes for data from the data source. See [Index patterns]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/index-patterns/) for more information and a tutorial. 

## Next steps

- Learn about [managing index patterns]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/index-patterns/) through OpenSearch Dashboards.
- Learn about [indexing data using Index Management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/im-dashboards/index/) through OpenSearch Dashboards.
- Learn about how to connect [multiple data sources]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/multi-data-sources/).
- Learn about how to [connect OpenSearch and Amazon S3 through OpenSearch Dashboards]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/S3-data-source/).

> - Learn about the [Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/index/) tool that gives you flexibility to use various data ingestion methods and connect data from the Dashboards UI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Learn about the [Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/index/) tool, which gives you the flexibility to use various data ingestion methods and connect data from the Dashboards UI.
```

---
layout: default
title: Data sources
nav_order: 110
has_children: true
---

# Data sources

Data sources in OpenSearch are the system and applications that OpenSearch can connect to and ingest data from. Once your data sources have been connected and your data has been ingested, it can be indexed, searched, and analyzed using [REST APIs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index/) or the OpenSearch Dashboards user interface. 

> The focus of this documentation is on using the OpenSeach Dashboards interface to connect and manage your data sources. For information about using an API to connect data sources, see the following:

Author: - Which APIs do we link user to? Please provide the links.
